# Introduction to relational databases

1. Introduction to relational databases
00:00 - 00:17
You have already mastered the art of importing all types of single files in Python: congratulations! However, to earn your daily bread and butter as a Data Scientist, you'll be required to interact with more complex data structures, such as relational databases.

2. What is a relational database?
00:17 - 00:35
What is a relational database? It's a type of database that is based upon the Relational model of data, first described by Ted Codd in the late 1960s. Before getting too theoretical, however, let's check out at an illuminating example,

3. Example: Northwind database
00:35 - 00:50
the Northwind Traders database, a synthetic database that contains sales data for a fictitious company. Firstly, a database consists of tables. Here you can see 3 tables from the Northwind database:

4. Example: Northwind database
00:50 - 00:51
'Orders',

5. Example: Northwind database
00:51 - 00:53
'Customers' and

6. Example: Northwind database
00:53 - 00:59
'Employees'. So what's a table? A table generally represents one entity type,

7. The Orders table
00:59 - 01:08
such as 'Order' . Notice that this table looks a great deal like a dataframe. That's the point. In a relational database table,

8. The Orders table
01:08 - 01:16
each row or record represents an instance of the entity type: in this case, each row is an Order.

9. The Orders table
01:16 - 01:42
Each column represents an attribute of each instance, such as 'OrderDate' in the case of 'Orders'. In this sense, a table is entirely analogous to a dataframe. It is essential that each row contain a unique identifier, known as a primary key, that we can use to explicitly access the row in question. In our 'Orders' table, you can see that

10. The Orders table
01:42 - 01:56
the key is 'OrderID' the first column. But recall that a database consists of many tables! The really cool thing about relational databases is not merely that you have a bunch of tables,

11. Tables are linked
01:56 - 02:05
but that the tables are linked. How this linking works is ultra-intuitive: see that the 'Orders' table has

12. Tables are linked
02:05 - 02:15
both a column called 'CustomerID' and one called 'EmployeeID'. These columns correspond precisely to the primary keys in the

13. Tables are linked
02:15 - 02:42
'Customers' and 'Employees' tables, respectively. So, given an Order, you can immediately look up the details of the relevant Customer or Employee. This is cool because it means that you don't need to store all the Customer details, such as first name, last name, company with every order that they place: you merely need to look it up in the 'Customers' table. This saves an incredible amount of space!

14. Relational model
02:42 - 03:30
As stated earlier, the relational database model was originally proposed by "Ted" Codd and has been widely adopted. There is a great deal to theory but it is most neatly summarized in Codd's 12 Rules, also known as Codd's 12 Commandments, which he developed in the early 1980s to combat what he viewed as a dilution of his original relational database vision. Codd's 12 Rules actually consist of 13 rules but they are zero-indexed, that is, the first rule is zero-indexed. If that makes you laugh, you're definitely a geek like me! These 13 rules were defined to describe what a Relational Database Management System should adhere to in order to be considered relational.

15. Relational Database Management Systems
03:30 - 03:37
Among the most popular of such systems are PostreSQL (commonly called Postgres),

16. Relational Database Management Systems
03:37 - 03:39
MySQL and

17. Relational Database Management Systems
03:39 - 03:47
SQLite, all of which use the SQL query language. In fact, SQL itself is actually an acronym

18. Relational Database Management Systems
03:47 - 04:07
for Structured Query Language, which describes how you communicate with a database in order to both access and update the information it contains. The term "querying" is really just a fancy way of saying getting data out from the database. Next up, you'll learn how to connect to databases but before that,

19. Let's practice!
04:07 - 04:15
let's make sure that you have a solid conceptual grip on the relational model.