# What is Python?

1. What is Python?
00:00 - 00:06
Hi, and welcome to this introductory Python course. My name is George, and I'll be your instructor.

2. What we will learn
00:06 - 00:30
This course will teach how to write and execute Python code from scratch with no prior knowledge required! We'll discuss Python's popularity for software development, introduce the DataCamp user interface for running code, and cover a range of concepts from variables to for loops. Let's start by seeing what Python is and why it is so popular for software development.

3. What is Python?
00:30 - 01:12
Python is a general-purpose programming language - you can use it to build practically any piece of software. But what makes Python so great? First of all, Python is open-source, meaning it's free to use. Secondly, it's easy to share code with others using packages, which are publicly available code, so we often don't need to write lots of code as we can use other people's. Thirdly, Python is a high-level programming language, meaning that its syntax, or the way it is written, closely resembles natural language. This readability makes it easy to learn compared to other languages.

4. The swiss army knife of programming languages
01:12 - 01:35
Python can be thought of as the Swiss army knife of programming languages because we can do many things with it. Common uses include task automation, web apps, and artificial intelligence or machine learning for tasks like scraping websites, generating or summarizing content, or recognizing images such as a face to unlock a phone.

1 https://unsplash.com/@dmjdenise
5. Python in Big Tech
01:35 - 02:23
Some of the most popular products have been built using Python! Spotify has been using Python for a variety of purposes, such as data analysis and generating recommendations for their users since 2013. Instagram also built its product using a mixture of programming languages, including Python. They did this with only three engineers, scaling to 14 million users before expanding their programming team, which highlights how Python is both easy to use and incredibly versatile! Likewise, Netflix uses Python extensively - to decide which content they should fund, manage their networking infrastructure that enables their content to play for users, and analyze data to produce personalized recommendations!

1 https://instagram-engineering.com/what-powers-instagram-hundreds-of-instances-dozens-of-technologies-adf2e22da2ad
6. Not always fit-for-purpose
02:23 - 02:57
Given Python's strengths, we might be wondering why anyone would bother to learn other programming languages. Remember we compared it to a Swiss army knife? While this is a benefit, it can also be a limitation. We could use a swiss army knife to chop down a tree, but we would be better off using an axe or a chainsaw. In the same way, while Python can do most things well, some tasks are better suited to other languages, such as Swift or Kotlin for developing a mobile app or C for hardware programming.

1 https://unsplash.com/@theoneofussocialclub
7. Speed of development
02:57 - 03:26
Remember that earlier, we discussed how Python looks like a natural language? As an example, this line creates a variable called my_age and assigns the number 34. We'll explain this in detail later in the course, but without any knowledge of Python, it looks pretty intuitive, right? This natural language makes it easy to learn Python and understand other people's code, but it's also a trade-off in terms of performance.

8. Speed of development
03:26 - 03:46
While Python can run code quickly in most circumstances, it is generally slower than several other programming languages, such as Java or C. However, when we factor in how easy Python is to use, there is an argument that it is quicker to develop software compared to other languages as a result.

9. Let's practice!
03:46 - 03:55
In the next video, we'll learn how to run Python code, but for now, let's recap what makes Python awesome!