# Variables and data types

1. Variables and data types
00:00 - 00:11
Performing calculations is great, but we might want to do more than just print the results. Let's look at how we can store information in Python, before discussing data types!

2. Variables
00:11 - 00:34
We can use variables to store information. Here, we create a variable called customer_age and assign a value of 25, representing their age in years. We do this by defining a variable using a case-sensitive name and then assigning a value to it using an equals sign.

3. Why use variables?
00:34 - 01:11
Variables are helpful for many reasons. They help us avoid typing the same information multiple times as we can just refer to the variable anywhere in our script, and Python will retrieve its value. We can also update variables if a value changes. For instance, if our customer has a birthday, then we can change their age from 25 to 26 using the same syntax we used to create the variable, and any calculations or tasks using this variable will automatically result in updated outputs based on this change.

4. Integers
01:11 - 01:51
So far, we've only worked with whole numbers. In Python, these are referred to as integer data types or int for short. This applies to a number or a variable with a number assigned, like here, where we have a customer's ID. Unlike several other programming languages, we don't need to tell Python what data type our variable is, it will infer this based on the value we assign! We can check the data type using Python's built-in type function, which states "class int", meaning the variable is an integer.

5. Floats
01:51 - 02:08
If we need numeric values with decimal places, then we can use a dot. Here, we store the customer's average spend in dollars. In Python, decimals are known as floats, which are short for floating point numbers.

6. Strings
02:08 - 02:36
Python features lots of other data types. The most common ones are strings and booleans. A string is Python's way of representing text. We can use both single and double quotes to build a string, as we can see from these examples. If we print the type of the last variable, we see that it's str, short for string.

7. Booleans
02:36 - 03:09
Boolean is a type that can be either True or False. We can think of it as 'Yes' and 'No' in everyday language. Booleans are very useful to check conditions, such as confirming a payment has been processed or an order has been dispatched. Again, checking the type confirms it is boolean, written as bool. Note that True and False must be capitalized, otherwise they will not work in Python!

8. Variable naming
03:09 - 03:38
Notice we used an underscore in our variable names when they are made up of two or more words rather than placing a space between the two words? This is because if we added a space and ran our code we would get a syntax error. After all, Python expects a single word before the equals sign. Note we can't start variable names with numbers, as this also produces an error.

9. Case conventions
03:38 - 04:10
When naming variables, we have two choices for how to approach it. We can use all lowercase characters and separate words with an underscore, as we did previously. This is known as the snake case. An alternative approach is called camel case, where we capitalize each word and avoid spaces or underscores like so. While we will use snake case throughout the course, neither is better than the other, it is down to personal preference.

10. Calculations with variables
04:10 - 04:29
If the variables are numeric, then we can perform calculations with them. If we know the number of transactions and average spend, then we can calculate the total spend for a customer by multiplying the two variables! Here, we print the customer name, followed by their total spend!

11. Let's practice!
04:29 - 04:32
Time to work with variables!