# Using lists with templates

Using lists with templates
Once again, you decide to make some modifications to the design of your cleandata workflow. This time, you realize that you need to run the command cleandata.sh with the date argument and the file argument as before, except now you have a list of 30 files. You do not want to create 30 tasks, so your job is to modify the code to support running the argument for 30 or more files.

The Python list of files is already created for you, simply called filelist.

Ide Exercise Instruction
100XP
Modify the templated_command to iterate over a list of filenames.
Pass the filelist to the templated command in the operator.

from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime

filelist = [f'file{x}.txt' for x in range(30)]

default_args = {
  'start_date': datetime(2020, 4, 15),
}

cleandata_dag = DAG('cleandata',
                    default_args=default_args,
                    schedule_interval='@daily')

# Modify the template to handle multiple files in a 
# single run.
templated_command = """
  <% for filename in ____ %>
  bash cleandata.sh {{ ds_nodash }} {{ filename }};
  <% endfor %>
"""

# Modify clean_task to use the templated command
clean_task = BashOperator(task_id='cleandata_task',
                          bash_command=templated_command,
                          params={'filenames': ____},
                          dag=cleandata_dag)


To modify the `templated_command` to iterate over a list of filenames and pass the `filelist` to the templated command in the `BashOperator`, you can use the Jinja templating syntax to loop through the list. Here's how to update the code:

```python
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime

filelist = [f'file{x}.txt' for x in range(30)]

default_args = {
  'start_date': datetime(2020, 4, 15),
}

cleandata_dag = DAG('cleandata',
                    default_args=default_args,
                    schedule_interval='@daily')

# Modify the template to handle multiple files in a single run
templated_command = """
{% for filename in params.filenames %}
  bash cleandata.sh {{ ds_nodash }} {{ filename }};
{% endfor %}
"""

# Modify clean_task to use the templated command
clean_task = BashOperator(
    task_id='cleandata_task',
    bash_command=templated_command,
    params={'filenames': filelist},
    dag=cleandata_dag
)
```

### Explanation:
1. **Jinja Template**: The `templated_command` uses Jinja syntax (`{% for ... %}` and `{% endfor %}`) to iterate over `params.filenames`.
2. **Pass File List**: The `params` dictionary in `clean_task` includes `filenames` as the `filelist`. This allows the command to generate bash commands dynamically for each file in the list.

This approach makes it easy to scale to handle more files efficiently without having to write repetitive code for each file.