# Exploring migration services

Exploring migration services
You are an IT project manager responsible for overseeing your company’s cloud migration to AWS. The initial phase of the migration involves tracking the progress of several teams using different tools and ensuring the timely transfer of your on-premise data to AWS.

You are evaluating AWS Migration Hub to monitor these processes, and you are exploring the first two steps of setting up an AWS Snowball job to securely move large datasets.

First, we'll start by exploring a migration service called AWS Snowball, which is a service that provides secure devices to transfer your data into and out of AWS.

Navigate to the AWS Snow Family service page.
Time to review the configuration options in Snowball, start by clicking the button to Order an AWS Snow family device (we will not be completing the configuration or ordering any devices).

Remember, we will not be ordering a device - this is for informative purposes only.

When requesting a device there are several steps including configuring: Job type, Compute and storage, Features and options, as well as Security, shipping and notification preferences. We'll be reviewing the first two steps in the process.

Provide a name for the data transfer job, such as 'MyFirstImport'
For job type, we'll set it to Import into Amazon S3.

Navigate to Step 2, Compute and Storage. In this section is where you would typically configure what type of device you want based on factors such as Compute (CPUs/GPUs), Memory, Storage (HDD) and Storage (SDD).
Further down the page, you can also select the destination you would like your data transferred to. You can select an already available bucket in your organization, alternatively you can create a new one.
Now we can cancel out of the Snowball job creation process, and look at other services.

Let's explore another service that helps manage migration projects. Search for the AWS Migration Hub and review the overview page which includes useful information on where to get started, as well as use cases.

This service is a useful place to help plan your migrations and track the status of each application as it moves to AWS.

To view the migration tools available to us, let's explore the Tools section under Migrate in the Migration Hub navigation pane.

AWS Migration Hub does not handle the configuration of AWS Snowball, but it can help you track the progress of such tasks.


Correct! AWS Migration Hub provides a unified view, making it easier to monitor the progress of your migration efforts across various tools and services. You've successfully explored the AWS Migration Hub tools and demonstrated your understanding of the initial steps in setting up a Snowball job. You are now well-prepared to track and manage cloud migration efforts and securely transfer large datasets to AWS!