# Overriding ARG in a build

Overriding ARG in a build
The ARG Dockerfile instruction allows us to set a variable in a Dockerfile and then optionally override it when building an image. We've added a Dockerfile to your current working directory with the following instructions:

FROM ubuntu
ARG WELCOME_TEXT=Hello!
RUN echo $WELCOME_TEXT
CMD echo $WELCOME_TEXT
The Dockerfile adds an ARG named WELCOME_TEXT, which is then printed during the build. The same text is printed when a container is started from the image.

Instructions
100 XP
Using the terminal, enter the command to build the Dockerfile and set the WELCOME_TEXT variable to Welcome!.

To build the Dockerfile and override the `WELCOME_TEXT` variable, you'll use the `docker build` command with the `--build-arg` flag. Here's the command you should use:

```
docker build --build-arg WELCOME_TEXT="Welcome!" .
```

Let's break down this command:

- `docker build`: This is the basic command to build a Docker image from a Dockerfile.
- `--build-arg WELCOME_TEXT="Welcome!"`: This flag allows you to pass a build argument to the Dockerfile. In this case, you're setting the `WELCOME_TEXT` variable to "Welcome!". Note that we've put the value in quotes to ensure it's treated as a single argument, especially if it contains spaces.
- `.`: This specifies that the Dockerfile is in the current directory.

When you run this command:

1. Docker will use the Dockerfile in the current directory to build an image.
2. During the build process, it will override the default value of `WELCOME_TEXT` (which was "Hello!") with "Welcome!".
3. The `RUN echo $WELCOME_TEXT` instruction in the Dockerfile will print "Welcome!" during the build.
4. The resulting image will have a `CMD` that echoes "Welcome!" when a container is started from this image.

Remember, you don't need to specify a name or tag for the image in this case, as the instructions didn't ask for it. If you wanted to name and tag the image, you could add `-t name:tag` to the command.