# Changing behavior when starting a container

Changing behavior when starting a container
Let's see how the ENV Dockerfile instruction works in practice. We've added a Dockerfile to your current working directory with the following instructions:

FROM ubuntu:22.04
ENV NAME=Tim
CMD echo "Hello, my name is $NAME"
The Dockerfile will print a personalized message, Hello, my name is Tim, on startup. Let's see how we can change this personalized message even after building an image from the Dockerfile.

Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1
Before we can start a container, we need to build the image from the Dockerfile. Build the Dockerfile in your local working directory giving it the name hello_image.

Take Hint (-15 XP)
2
Now that we've built the image, we can start a container from it. Start a container from the hello_image image you just made, but use a flag on the command to set the NAME ENV variable to your name.

Certainly! Let's go through this step-by-step.

Step 1: Building the image

To build the image from the Dockerfile in your current working directory and name it "hello_image", use this command:

```
docker build -t hello_image .
```

This command does the following:
- `docker build` is the command to build a Docker image
- `-t hello_image` tags the image with the name "hello_image"
- `.` specifies that the Dockerfile is in the current directory

Step 2: Starting a container with a custom environment variable

Now that we've built the image, we can start a container from it and override the NAME environment variable. To do this, use the following command (replace "YourName" with your actual name):

```
docker run -e NAME=YourName hello_image
```

This command does the following:
- `docker run` is the command to create and start a container
- `-e NAME=YourName` sets the environment variable NAME to your name, overriding the default value set in the Dockerfile
- `hello_image` is the name of the image we want to run

For example, if your name is Alice, you would run:

```
docker run -e NAME=Alice hello_image
```

This will start a container from the hello_image and output:
"Hello, my name is Alice"

The `-e` flag allows us to set environment variables when starting a container, overriding any default values set in the Dockerfile with the ENV instruction. This demonstrates how ENV variables can be easily changed at runtime, providing flexibility in how containers behave when started.