# Setting the user

Setting the working directory
Putting the finishing touches to your pipeline Docker image, you want to make it clear that all pipeline project files in your images will be in the repl users' home directory by setting the working directory to /home/repl.

Instructions
100 XP
Using the terminal, open the Dockerfile in your current working directory and edit the fourth line to make all next instructions run in /home/repl.

Certainly! To set the user to "repl" in the Dockerfile, you need to use the `USER` instruction. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, open the Dockerfile in your current working directory using a text editor. You can use the `nano` editor, which is commonly available in most Unix-like systems:

   ```
   nano Dockerfile
   ```

2. Once the Dockerfile is open, navigate to the third line.

3. On the third line, add the following instruction:

   ```dockerfile
   USER repl
   ```

4. After adding this line, your Dockerfile should look something like this:

   ```dockerfile
   FROM ubuntu:22.04
   RUN useradd -ms /bin/bash repl
   USER repl
   # ... other instructions ...
   ```

5. Save the changes and exit the editor:
   - If you're using nano, press `Ctrl + X`, then `Y`, then `Enter` to save and exit.

This `USER repl` instruction tells Docker that all subsequent commands in the Dockerfile should be run as the "repl" user, rather than as root. This is a good security practice, as it limits the permissions of the processes running in your container.

Remember, this change means that any following instructions (like `RUN`, `CMD`, `ENTRYPOINT`, etc.) will be executed as the "repl" user unless another `USER` instruction is encountered.