# Pulling a specific tag

Pulling a specific tag
You were helping a colleague by looking at an issue they were having with installing some of their tools on the ubuntu image. You couldn't reproduce the issues so far, and just realized you might be trying on a different version of Ubuntu.

Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1
Using the terminal, enter the command to see all images available on your machine.

Take Hint (-15 XP)
2
Seems like you are not using the same version as your colleague, who is using the 22.04 tag of ubuntu. Pull the right version, 22.04, of the ubuntu image.

Certainly! I'll guide you through both steps.

1. To see all images available on your machine, you would use the following command:

```
docker images
```

This command lists all Docker images that are currently stored on your local system, including their repository names, tags, image IDs, creation dates, and sizes.

2. To pull the specific version (22.04) of the Ubuntu image that your colleague is using, you would use this command:

```
docker pull ubuntu:22.04
```

This command does the following:
- `docker pull` is the command to download an image from a registry (Docker Hub by default)
- `ubuntu` is the name of the image
- `:22.04` is the specific tag for the Ubuntu version you want to pull

After running this command, Docker will download the Ubuntu 22.04 image to your local system. Once it's finished, you can verify that you have the correct image by running `docker images` again, and you should see `ubuntu` with the `22.04` tag in the list.