# Adding a CMD

Adding a CMD
While creating an image for your python pipeline, you had many issues debugging any problems that came up. To be able to debug these easily, you decide to make an image based on the same version of ubuntu that starts python3 by default.

Instructions 3/3
30 XP
Add the instruction so that your Docker image starts python3 by default.
Using the terminal, run the command to build an image called pipeline_debug from the Dockerfile in your current working directory.
3
Let's test the image we just made. Using the terminal, enter the command to run the pipeline_debug image.



Certainly! Let's go through this step-by-step.

Step 1: Adding the CMD instruction to the Dockerfile

To make the Docker image start python3 by default, we need to add the following line to the end of the Dockerfile:

dockerfile
Copy Code
CMD python3
This instruction tells Docker to run the python3 command when the container starts, unless overridden by the user.

Step 2: Building the image

To build the image from the Dockerfile in the current working directory and name it "pipeline_debug", use this command:

docker build -t pipeline_debug .
This command does the following:

docker build is the command to build a Docker image
-t pipeline_debug tags the image with the name "pipeline_debug"
. specifies that the Dockerfile is in the current directory
Step 3: Running the image

To run the pipeline_debug image we just created, use this command:

docker run -it pipeline_debug
This command does the following:

docker run is the command to create and start a container
-it makes the container interactive and allocates a pseudo-TTY
pipeline_debug is the name of the image we want to run
When you run this command, it should start a Python 3 interactive shell inside the container, because that's what we specified with the CMD instruction in the Dockerfile.

These steps should allow you to create and run a Docker image based on Ubuntu that starts python3 by default, which will be helpful for debugging your pipeline.