# Working in the command-line

Working in the command-line
A Dockerfile is just a textfile and creating or editing it can be done using any text editor. However since the default way to work with Docker is through the Command Line Interface, it's convenient to also edit Dockerfiles using the command line. Let's refresh our memory on how to navigate the file system and create or edit a Dockerfile with the command line.

Instructions 1/4
25 XP
1
2
3
4
Create a file called Dockerfile in the current working directory.

Use touch Dockerfile; the touch command will create an empty file for you.

Or use nano Dockerfile, which will create an empty file but also open the nano text editor, which you then have to save using CTRL+s after which you can exit with CTRL+x.


Certainly! I'll guide you through creating a Dockerfile using the command line interface. We'll use the `touch` command as it's the simplest way to create an empty file.

To create a file called Dockerfile in the current working directory, enter this command in the terminal:

```bash
touch Dockerfile
```

This command will create an empty file named "Dockerfile" in your current directory. 

After running this command, you can verify that the file was created by listing the contents of the current directory:

```bash
ls
```

You should see "Dockerfile" in the list of files.

If you want to add content to this Dockerfile, you can use a command-line text editor like `nano`. To open the Dockerfile in nano, you would use:

```bash
nano Dockerfile
```

This would open the nano text editor where you can add your Docker instructions. When you're done editing, you can save and exit nano by pressing CTRL+X, then Y to confirm saving, and then Enter to confirm the filename.

Remember, Dockerfiles are case-sensitive, and it's a convention to name them "Dockerfile" with a capital D. This allows Docker to automatically find and use the file when you run `docker build` in that directory.
