# Editing a Dockerfile

Editing a Dockerfile
Let's get familiar with the RUN instruction. We've created a Dockerfile for you. You can look at its content using cat Dockerfile or using nano. Like before, the Dockerfile already has a FROM instruction, but you'll be adding a RUN command this time.

Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1
Add the correct instruction to the end of the Dockerfile so that the mkdir my_app shell command is run when building the Dockerfile.



Take Hint (-15 XP)
Incorrect submission
Feel free to keep exploring! To progress in the exercise we expected you to build the Dockerfile.

Did you find this feedback helpful?


Yes

No
2
Using the terminal, run the command to build an image called my_app from the Dockerfile in your current working directory.

I apologize for the confusion in my previous response. Let's go through this step-by-step to add the RUN instruction to the Dockerfile and then build the image.

Step 1: Add the RUN instruction to the Dockerfile

First, let's add the RUN instruction to create the 'my_app' directory. You can do this using the nano text editor:

```bash
nano Dockerfile
```

In the nano editor, add the following line at the end of the file:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir my_app
```

Save and exit nano by pressing CTRL+X, then Y, then Enter.

You can verify the content of the Dockerfile using:

```bash
cat Dockerfile
```

Step 2: Build the image

Now that we've added the RUN instruction to the Dockerfile, let's build the image with the name 'my_app':

```bash
docker build -t my_app .
```

This command tells Docker to:
- Build an image
- Tag it with the name 'my_app' (that's what the -t flag does)
- Use the Dockerfile in the current directory (that's what the . at the end means)

After running this command, Docker will process the instructions in your Dockerfile, including the RUN command to create the 'my_app' directory.

You can verify that the image was created by running:

```bash
docker images
```

You should see 'my_app' in the list of images.

Remember, the RUN instruction in a Dockerfile executes commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commits the results. This new committed layer will be used for the next step in the Dockerfile.