# Restoring and reverting

1. Restoring and reverting
00:00 - 00:17
So far we've looked at undoing changes prior to making commits. Now we'll look at how to customize our log commands as our projects scale, restore files to previous versions from particular commits, and delete all files that are not being tracked by Git.

2. Project scale
00:17 - 00:45
When undoing, or reverting files to previous versions, we will often want to look at the commit history using the git log command. However, the larger our project gets, the more commits we will make, and this causes the git log output to become quite large! To illustrate this point, here is a project with only eight commits. We can imagine even at this scale it becomes difficult to pinpoint the commit we are looking for!

3. Customizing the log output
00:45 - 01:07
To get around this, we can restrict the number of commits returned by adding a dash followed by the number of commits to display. For example, git log dash-three shows us the three most recent commits. If we're only interested in one file's history we can include that at the end of the command, such as here for report-dot-md.

4. Customizing the log output
01:07 - 01:57
We can further restrict the output by date. Adding dash-dash-since equals, followed by a date in either single or double quotation marks shows only the commits since the specified date. We use the format of month, day, year, where month is a three letter abbreviation, day is one or two digits, and year is four digits. For example, to see commits since the second of April 2022 we execute git log dash-dash-since equals Apr-two, two-thousand-and-twenty-two. We can add an end for the date range too. Here, we show commits between the second and eleventh of April 2022 by also including the dash-dash-until flag.

5. Restoring an old version of a file
01:57 - 02:10
Suppose we want to restore the mental-health-survey-dot-csv file to a version from the sixth of July when we added some new data. We can run git log and find the commit we need to restore the file version to.

6. Restoring an old version of a file
02:10 - 02:47
We previously saw how git checkout can be used to revert to the version of a file in the last commit. If we want to revert to a version of a file from a specific commit, then all we need to do is point to that commit. We can do this by replacing the two dashes with the git hash. Here, we restore the mental-health-survey-dot-csv file to the version in the commit with the hash starting with dc9. Since this was the second to last commit, we can also revert the file using git checkout HEAD-tilde-one.

7. Restoring a repo to a previous state
02:47 - 03:03
Likewise, if we want to restore versions of all files to their state in this particular commit then we use the same command as before but omit the filename. Again, we can replace the commit hash with HEAD and a tilde for the same result.

8. Cleaning a repository
03:03 - 03:36
We've looked at methods for restoring files, but what if we want to delete files that are not currently being tracked? By definition, this means we have not saved them, so perhaps we created some files, or copied them in from other projects, and have now decided we don't need them. We can use git clean with the dash-n flag to list all untracked files. To delete these files, we use git clean with the dash-f flag. We need to be aware that once we execute this command the files are gone for good!

9. Let's practice!
03:36 - 03:43
Now it's your turn to restore some files to their previous states!