# Viewing changes

1. Viewing changes
00:00 - 00:07
We've seen how Git stores data as part of the commit process, now we'll look at additional methods for comparing commits.

2. The HEAD shortcut
00:07 - 00:39
Recall that we previously used the git diff dash-r HEAD command, to compare versions of files in the staging area versus the last commit. We can include a tilde to pick a specific commit to compare versions with the staging area. For example, HEAD-tilde-one is a path to the second most recent commit, while HEAD-tilde-two points to the commit before that. Note that we must not use spaces before or after the tilde, or the command won't work.

3. From commit hash to HEAD
00:39 - 00:52
This diagram shows how HEAD maps to the commit. The last commit is referenced with HEAD, the one before with HEAD-tilde-one, and the one before that with HEAD-tilde-two.

4. Using HEAD with git show
00:52 - 01:18
We can use the HEAD command with git show to look at changes made to files in that specific commit. Here, we run git-show-HEAD-tilde-three to look at the fourth most recent commit. The output shows the commit hash, author, date, log message, and diff. We can see that three lines were added to the report-dot-md file.

5. What changed between two commits?
01:18 - 01:30
We know that git show can be used to look at changes made in a particular commit, but what if we need to see changes between two commits? In this case we use the git diff command.

6. What changed between two commits?
01:30 - 01:45
To see the difference between the fourth and third most recent commits we can use git diff along with their commit hashes, or, we can use the HEAD command along with a tilde and the numbers associated with those commits.

7. What changed between two commits?
01:45 - 01:56
The output shows that a fourth line was added at the end of the report-dot-md file in the more recent of the two commits, with the contents of the line shown at the bottom of the output.

8. Changes per document by line
01:56 - 02:42
Suppose we want to see who made the last change to each line of a file, and when the change took place. We can use the git annotate command followed by the filename. Here, we have used annotate to see the changes made to report-dot-md. In each line of the output there are five elements - the first eight digits of the hash, the author Rep Loop, the time of the commit, the line number, and the contents of the line. This may not seem particularly useful in this instance, but if we are working as part of a large team where multiple people are editing a file, then git annotate is a quick way to see who added a specific line of content and when.

1 Image credit: https://unsplash.com/@hannahbusing
9. Summary
02:42 - 03:13
We've covered several commands, so let's recap briefly on what each one does and when to use it. git show can be used with HEAD and tilde to show what changed in a specific commit. git diff hash1 hash2 will display changes between two commits, as will git diff and different HEAD paths. Lastly, git annotate file will show line-by-line changes to a file and its associated metadata.

10. Let's practice!
03:13 - 03:19
Now it's your turn to practice the various methods for comparing changes!

