# Undoing changes before committing

1. Undoing changes before committing
00:00 - 00:13
We've learned several ways to compare files, but what if we need to undo changes? Let's look at some scenarios where this may occur and how we can use Git commands to resolve the problem.

2. Unstaging a file
00:13 - 00:33
Suppose there are four files in our repo and we've been modifying three of them. We want to save two of them and continue working on the third file, summary-statistics-dot-csv, before we save it. In this case, we don't want to commit that file yet. But what if we accidentally add this file to the staging area?

3. Unstaging a file
00:33 - 00:46
In this scenario, we need to remove summary-statistics-dot-csv from the staging area, or, to put it another way, we need to unstage the file so it is back in the repo.

4. Making a commit
00:46 - 00:52
Once the file has been unstaged, we can then commit the two modified files from the staging area.

5. Committing the third file
00:52 - 01:01
We are then free to update summary-statistics-dot-csv, add it back to the staging area, and make another commit just for this file.

6. Unstaging a single file in Git
01:01 - 01:18
To unstage a single file, we can use the command git reset HEAD followed by the filename. We can then edit our file, restage it, or add it back into the staging area, and make a commit for that file only, including a log message.

7. Unstaging all files
01:18 - 01:29
Alternatively, if we need to move all files in the staging area back to the repo, then we execute git reset HEAD without specifying any filenames.

8. Undo changes to an unstaged file
01:29 - 02:08
Let's look at another common scenario. If we need to undo changes to a file, let's say summary-statistics-dot-csv, that we haven't added to the staging area, we can do this using the git checkout command followed by two dashes and the filename. This reverts the file back to the version in the last commit. Checkout means switching to a different version, and defaults to the version in the last commit. Since undoing changes to a staged file means we revert it to the version in the last commit, we will lose the changes we made to the file prior to adding it to the staging area.

9. Undo changes to all unstaged files
02:08 - 02:47
If, rather than undoing changes to one unstaged file, we need to undo changes to all unstaged files in our repo, we can use git checkout as before, with one slight difference. Instead of the two dashes and the filename we add a period. This is a way to refer to the current directory when running a command in the shell. In this instance, git will undo changes to all unstaged files in the current directory and any sub-directories. The git checkout command must be run from the main directory, in this case mh_survey, in order to work.

10. Unstaging and undoing
02:47 - 03:15
To unstage one or more files and then undo changes we can combine the commands we have learned. So, first we unstage all files using git reset HEAD. Then we execute git checkout dot to checkout the last commit, replacing all versions of files in the repo. To save the repo in this state we then need to add all files to the staging area, and make a commit.

11. Let's practice!
03:15 - 03:24
We're now equipped with several techniques for undoing changes in Git repos, let's practice them 