# An overview of providers

1. An overview of providers
00:00 - 00:11
Welcome to the third and final chapter of this course! My name is Iason, and I will provide you with an overview of the main actors in the cloud computing industry.

2. Overview
00:11 - 00:32
Before we dive in, let's get on the same page regarding what we will cover in this chapter. This chapter will provide an overview of the main cloud providers based on market shares, their respective key services, their strengths, and some of their customers. We will also present a case study for the major providers.

3. Overview
00:32 - 00:56
It is important to note that markets move, products are deprecated, renamed, or replaced, and customers churn, so the cloud computing landscape can and will change. This chapter will also focus on the main actors in the market. We will examine some of their primary cloud storage, computing, and database services.

4. The players
00:56 - 01:07
So, who are the players in this cloud computing game? Some well-known technology and internet companies offer cloud computing services, and you will surely recognize some of these logos.

5. Market share
01:07 - 01:28
But what about the market share for each? By the end of 2023, the cloud computing market had the following split in market share for the major players. These splits are based on platform as a service and infrastructure as a service, along with hosted private cloud services.

6. Market share
01:28 - 01:34
It is clear that there are three main players in the market, and we will focus on them in this chapter.

7. The rise of cloud computing
01:34 - 02:01
Cloud computing services have become essential for many companies in the modern age due to the numerous benefits offered by IaaS and PaaS products and the power of the cloud in general. By correctly implementing cloud computing services, companies can become more agile, efficient, and innovative while reducing costs and focusing on their core business.

8. Making a choice
02:01 - 02:20
How does a company choose its provider in a competitive market with many cloud providers? Ultimately, the best cloud provider is the one that will best meet your needs. You can leverage your company's cloud specialists' knowledge and contact cloud providers directly to choose the best option.

9. Making a choice
02:20 - 02:45
You will need to consider your current infrastructure costs, the costs of running a data center, managing physical hardware and storage options, the cost of deprecating, migrating, or rebuilding your applications for the cloud, the cost of adding cloud specialists to your workforce, the benefits to your company and its customers, and the potential risks of moving to the cloud.

10. Let's practice!
02:45 - 02:54
With this in mind, let’s move on to some exercises before discussing the three main cloud computing providers.