Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1 Using the terminal, enter the command to run the postgres image in the background.

Take Hint (-15 XP)
2 Make sure the container is running by listing all containers and verifying that you see a Postgres container running.

Certainly! I'll guide you through running a Postgres container in the background and then verifying that it's running. Let's do this step by step.

Step 1: Run the Postgres image in the background

To run the Postgres image in the background, we'll use the `docker run` command with the `-d` flag (which stands for "detached" mode). Here's the command you should enter in the terminal:

```bash
docker run -d postgres
```

This command will:
- Pull the latest Postgres image if it's not already on your system
- Create and start a new container from this image
- Run the container in the background

Step 2: Verify the container is running

To list all running containers and verify that the Postgres container is indeed running, use the following command:

```bash
docker ps
```

This command will show you a list of all currently running containers. You should see an entry for the Postgres container in the output. It will look something like this:

```
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS      NAMES
abc123def456   postgres   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago   Up 2 minutes   5432/tcp   some_random_name
```

The important things to note in this output are:
- The IMAGE column should show "postgres"
- The STATUS column should indicate that it's "Up" and running

If you see the Postgres container in this list, congratulations! You've successfully started a Postgres container in the background and verified that it's running.

Remember, when you're done with your work, you can stop the container using `docker stop <CONTAINER_ID>`, replacing <CONTAINER_ID> with the actual ID of your Postgres container.

Let me know if you need any clarification or if you'd like to know more about managing Docker containers!