Pulling a specific tag
You were helping a colleague by looking at an issue they were having with installing some of their tools on the ubuntu image. You couldn't reproduce the issues so far, and just realized you might be trying on a different version of Ubuntu.

Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1
Using the terminal, enter the command to see all images available on your machine.

Take Hint (-15 XP)
2
Seems like you are not using the same version as your colleague, who is using the 22.04 tag of ubuntu. Pull the right version, 22.04, of the ubuntu image.

Certainly! To download (or "pull") the hello-world image from Docker Hub, you'll use the `docker pull` command. Here's the exact command you should enter in the terminal:

```bash
docker pull hello-world
```

This command does the following:

1. It tells Docker to download the "hello-world" image from Docker Hub (the default registry).
2. If you don't specify a tag, it will pull the latest version of the image (which is implicitly tagged as "latest").

After running this command, you should see output similar to this:

```
Using default tag: latest
latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
2db29710123e: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:faa03e786c97f07ef34423fccceeec2398ec8a5759259f94d99078f264e9d7af
Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest
docker.io/library/hello-world:latest
```

This output indicates that Docker has successfully downloaded the hello-world image.

You can verify that the image is now available locally by running:

```bash
docker images
```

This will list all the images on your local system, and you should see "hello-world" in the list.

Now that you've pulled the image, you can run a container from it using `docker run hello-world` whenever you want, without needing to download it again (unless there's a newer version available and you explicitly pull it).