# Importing non-flat files from the web

Importing non-flat files from the web
Congrats! You've just loaded a flat file from the web into a DataFrame without first saving it locally using the pandas function pd.read_csv(). This function is super cool because it has close relatives that allow you to load all types of files, not only flat ones. In this interactive exercise, you'll use pd.read_excel() to import an Excel spreadsheet.

The URL of the spreadsheet is

'https://assets.datacamp.com/course/importing_data_into_r/latitude.xls'
Your job is to use pd.read_excel() to read in all of its sheets, print the sheet names and then print the head of the first sheet using its name, not its index.

Note that the output of pd.read_excel() is a Python dictionary with sheet names as keys and corresponding DataFrames as corresponding values.

Instructions
100 XP
Assign the URL of the file to the variable url.
Read the file in url into a dictionary xls using pd.read_excel() recalling that, in order to import all sheets you need to pass None to the argument sheet_name.
Print the names of the sheets in the Excel spreadsheet; these will be the keys of the dictionary xls.
Print the head of the first sheet using the sheet name, not the index of the sheet! The sheet name is '1700'

```py
# Import package
import pandas as pd

# Assign url of file: url


# Read in all sheets of Excel file: xls


# Print the sheetnames to the shell


# Print the head of the first sheet (using its name, NOT its index)


```

Here's how to import an Excel spreadsheet from the web using `pandas`, print the sheet names, and display the head of the first sheet:

```python
# Import package
import pandas as pd

# Assign url of file: url
url = 'https://assets.datacamp.com/course/importing_data_into_r/latitude.xls'

# Read in all sheets of Excel file: xls
xls = pd.read_excel(url, sheet_name=None)

# Print the sheetnames to the shell
print(xls.keys())

# Print the head of the first sheet (using its name, NOT its index)
print(xls['1700'].head())
```

### Explanation:
1. **Assigning the URL**: The URL of the Excel file is assigned to the variable `url`.
2. **Reading the Excel File**: The `pd.read_excel()` function is used to read all sheets from the Excel file into a dictionary called `xls`. By passing `None` to the `sheet_name` parameter, all sheets are imported, with the sheet names as keys and their corresponding DataFrames as values.
3. **Printing Sheet Names**: The `print(xls.keys())` command prints the names of the sheets in the Excel spreadsheet.
4. **Printing the Head of the First Sheet**: The command `print(xls['1700'].head())` retrieves the DataFrame corresponding to the sheet named '1700' and prints the first few rows of that DataFrame.

This approach allows you to easily explore the contents of Excel files and work with multiple sheets efficiently!