# Performing HTTP requests in Python using urllib

Performing HTTP requests in Python using urllib
Now that you know the basics behind HTTP GET requests, it's time to perform some of your own. In this interactive exercise, you will ping our very own DataCamp servers to perform a GET request to extract information from the first coding exercise of this course, "https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/1606/4135?ex=2".

In the next exercise, you'll extract the HTML itself. Right now, however, you are going to package and send the request and then catch the response.

Instructions
100 XP
Import the functions urlopen and Request from the subpackage urllib.request.
Package the request to the url "https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/1606/4135?ex=2" using the function Request() and assign it to request.
Send the request and catch the response in the variable response with the function urlopen().
Run the rest of the code to see the datatype of response and to close the connection!

```py
# Import packages


# Specify the url
url = "https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/1606/4135?ex=2"

# This packages the request: request


# Sends the request and catches the response: response


# Print the datatype of response
print(type(response))

# Be polite and close the response!
response.close()


```

Here's how to perform an HTTP GET request in Python using the `urllib` library:

```python
# Import packages
from urllib.request import urlopen, Request

# Specify the url
url = "https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/1606/4135?ex=2"

# This packages the request: request
request = Request(url)

# Sends the request and catches the response: response
response = urlopen(request)

# Print the datatype of response
print(type(response))

# Be polite and close the response!
response.close()
```

### Explanation:
1. **Importing Functions**: The `urlopen` and `Request` functions are imported from the `urllib.request` subpackage.
2. **Specifying the URL**: The URL of the request is assigned to the variable `url`.
3. **Packaging the Request**: The `Request()` function is used to create a request object for the specified URL.
4. **Sending the Request**: The `urlopen()` function is called with the request object to send the request and retrieve the response, which is stored in the variable `response`.
5. **Printing the Data Type**: The type of the response object is printed to confirm that the request was successful.
6. **Closing the Response**: The `response.close()` method is called to close the connection, which is a good practice to free up resources.

This code allows you to interact with web resources effectively using HTTP requests!