# Configuring Git

1. Configuring Git
00:00 - 00:05
Let's look at some tips and tricks to improve our workflow by configuring settings.

2. Why do we need to configure our settings?
00:05 - 00:13
Git has a range of customizable settings that can simplify our version control tasks, resulting in improved productivity!

1 Image credit: https://unsplash.com/@schmaendels
3. Levels of settings
00:13 - 00:38
To access a list of customizable settings, we can run git config dash-dash-list. Git has three levels of settings. We can add dash-dash-local to the command to see settings for one specific project. Dash-dash-global shows settings for all of our projects, and dash-dash-system displays settings for every user on this computer.

4. Local settings
00:38 - 00:43
Each level overrides the one above it, so local settings

5. Global settings
00:43 - 00:46
take precedence over global settings,

6. System settings
00:46 - 00:49
taking precedence over system settings.

7. What can we configure?
00:49 - 01:12
Here, we run git config dash-dash-list to view the list of all customizable settings. Of those displayed, the most commonly customized are user-dot-email and user-dot-name, as some commands will require our credentials, so including them in our Git configuration will save time. Note that these are both global settings.

8. Changing our settings
01:12 - 01:56
We can modify a global setting using the syntax git config dash-dash-global setting value. For example, to change our email address to johnsmith-at-datacamp-dot-com, we execute git config dash-dash-global user-dot-email johnsmith-at-datacamp-dot-com. Likewise, we can change our username to John Smith by executing git config dash-dash-global user-dot-name John Smith. Note that we place the name in single quotations. If we don't do this and our user name has a space, Git will ignore anything after the space. So, this command would save the user name as John.

9. Using an alias
01:56 - 02:39
Another cool way to speed up our workflow is to use an alias for common commands. We can set up an alias through global settings. A typical use case is to shorten the length of a command. Suppose we want to create an alias for committing files with a log message using the alias c-i instead of commit. We execute git config dash-dash-global alias-dot-ci commit dash-m. As with updating our user name, we use single quotations around commit dash-m because this command has a space. Now we can commit files with a log message by executing git ci instead of git commit dash-m.

10. Creating a custom alias
02:39 - 03:07
We can create a custom alias for any command that we perform regularly. If we often unstage files, we can create an alias. We execute the same command as before, creating an alias called unstage and assigning it to the reset HEAD command. A word of warning - while aliasing is a valuable tool for working more efficiently with Git, we need to ensure the aliases we create don't overwrite any existing Git or shell commands!

11. Tracking aliases
03:07 - 03:28
Git helps us track our aliases by storing them in a dot-git config file. We can access it by calling git config dash-dash-global dash-dash-list. The output will be a list showing the alias and the original command it is assigned to. Here, we see ci and unstage.

12. Ignoring specific files
03:28 - 03:37
Another helpful trick is to instruct Git to ignore certain files. We do this by creating a file called dot-gitignore.

13. Ignoring specific files
03:37 - 03:58
Here we add asterisk-dot-log inside the dot-gitignore file using nano. The asterisk is a wildcard, which means Git will ignore any files ending with dot-log. Other files commonly ignored include API keys or credentials, system files, or software dependencies.

14. Let's practice!
03:58 - 04:02
Let's practice customizing our settings in Git!