# Working with branches

1. Working with branches
00:00 - 00:09
Now we know how to create branches and see how many are in our repo, we'll look at how to switch between branches and merge two branches together!

2. Why do we need to switch branches?
00:09 - 00:38
When working on projects, developing across different components is common. This is a key reason why we should switch between branches, as it allows us to keep making progress concurrently. For example, imagine we have some code in use to track the performance of our surveys. We want to test some new ideas, but we don't want to change our existing code until we have confirmed it works. We create a new branch of our repo called testing, and test our new ideas.

3. Why do we need to switch branches?
00:38 - 00:51
At the same time, we've noticed some errors, so we also create another branch called debugging, where we analyze the logs, make changes, along with refactoring our code, and testing it in the staging environment.

4. How do we switch branches?
00:51 - 01:20
Recall that we previously used git checkout along with the dash-b flag and the name of a new branch to create that branch. Well, we can also use git checkout to switch to an existing branch by omitting the dash-b flag. Here, we run git checkout debugging to switch to the debugging branch. We can confirm we have successfully switched by running git branch, as the output provides an asterisk to indicate the branch we are in.

5. Next step: merge
01:20 - 01:22
After we finish debugging,

6. Next step: merge
01:22 - 01:28
we merge our debugging branch back into main and the debugged code is put into production.

7. Next step: merge
01:28 - 01:37
After this, we finish evaluating our new code and, as it performs better than our current one, we merge the testing branch back into main too.

8. Why do we merge branches?
01:37 - 01:45
Notice that in this diagram we merged the testing and debugging branches back into the main branch. But why?

9. Why do we merge branches?
01:45 - 02:02
We can think of the main branch as the ground truth for our project. So, generally speaking, each branch should be used for a specific task, and once that task has been completed, we need to incorporate the changes back into the main branch. This keeps it up to date and accurate.

10. Merging branches
02:02 - 02:17
We can merge branches using the git merge command followed by the source and destination branch, in that order. If we want to merge summary-statistics into main we would execute git merge summary-statistics main.

11. Merge output
02:17 - 02:22
The output shows the last two commit hashes from each branch at the top.

12. Merge output
02:22 - 02:34
Next is the type of merge. In this case it is a fast-forward merge, meaning additional commits were made on the summary-statistics branch, so Git brings the main branch up to date.

13. Merge output
02:34 - 02:50
The output also shows the number of lines added or deleted per file. In this case a subdirectory called summary was created with 44 extra lines. The summary-dot-txt file in the results subdirectory was created but no lines were added,

14. Merge output
02:50 - 02:55
which is reiterated in the last two lines of the output showing the files modified.

15. Let's practice!
02:55 - 03:00
Now let's practice switching and merging with Git!