# Handling conflict

1. Handling conflict
00:00 - 00:15
So far, we've been able to merge branches without any issues. However, this isn't always the case - sometimes, we will experience what Git calls a conflict. Let's discuss what a conflict is and how to deal with it.

2. What is a conflict?
00:15 - 00:41
A conflict occurs when a file in different branches has different contents that prevent them from automatically merging into a single version. For example, suppose we have a to-do list in the main branch with two tasks, as shown here. We commit this file, then, we switch to a new branch called update. We add a third task to the to-do list in the new update branch.

3. What is a conflict?
00:41 - 00:58
After committing the modified file in the update branch, we switch back to main. We work away on our report and then submit it. We then decide to update our to-do list by removing the first two tasks we've completed. It now looks like this in the main branch.

4. Conflict
00:58 - 01:03
This file now has different versions in the main and update branches!

5. Attempting to merge a conflict
01:03 - 01:17
Let's see what happens if we try to merge update into main. The output shows that Git attempted to figure out how to merge the branches but failed, so it asks us to fix the conflicts and then commit the result.

6. Git conflicts
01:17 - 01:35
Before merging, we need to follow Git's advice and resolve the conflict. We can resolve it by opening the conflicting file using the nano text editor. We see some extra content was added. This was actually put there by Git to indicate the difference between versions in the two branches.

7. Git conflicts
01:35 - 02:19
The first line starting with arrows pointing to the left and the word HEAD indicates that lines beneath it contain the file's contents in the latest commit of the current branch, in this case, main. The line with equal signs refers to the center of the conflict. As it comes straight after the first line, it indicates that the lines beneath are part of the file version in the latest commit of the current branch. However, if the equal signs came after some content, this would mean our files have different content on the same lines in different branches. The line with several arrows pointing to the right and the word update indicates additional content below that is in the update branch.

8. Conflict web editor
02:19 - 02:37
Here we take steps to resolve the conflict. We only want task C remaining, which is to submit our expenses. Therefore, we delete all of the other lines. Lastly, we save the modified file, which no longer contains any of the Git conflict syntax.

9. Merging the branches
02:37 - 03:04
We add our updated to-do list to the staging area, then commit it to the main branch. Now, we can try to merge the update branch into main again. As we've resolved the conflict, Git informs us that the two branches are already up to date, which is a relief! We saw how to deal with a minor conflict, but if versions are wildly different between branches, this process can be pretty intimidating!

10. How do we avoid conflicts?
03:04 - 03:31
So, in the case of conflicts, prevention is definitely better than cure. While it's important that we know how to deal with conflicts, the best approach is to lower the chances of conflicts occurring. As we saw previously, the ideal approach is to use each branch for a specific task. We should avoid editing the same file in multiple branches. While it doesn't guarantee we'll avoid creating a conflict, it does reduce the risk.

11. Let's practice!
03:31 - 03:36
Now let's practice dealing with conflicts in Git!