# Branches

1. Branches
00:00 - 00:05
Now we'll learn about a fundamental concept for version control - branches.

2. Too many subdirectories
00:05 - 00:28
If we are working locally and not using version control, it's common to create subdirectories to store different versions of files. We'll likely end up with extra files and sub-directories. This image shows a draft, final subdirectory, and final-v2 subdirectories! So it becomes difficult to locate the correct version of each file.

3. Branches to the rescue!
00:28 - 00:51
One of the reasons Git is so popular is that it uses branches, which helps avoid this issue of excessive subdirectories. Branches enable us to have multiple versions of our work and track each version systematically. Each branch is like a parallel universe; some files might be the same, others might be different, or some may not exist.

4. Visualizing branches
00:51 - 01:06
To bring the branches back together, we merge them. Let's visualize this process. Here, we have a diagram showing three branches, where each box is a commit, and the arrows point to the next commit.

5. Main branch
01:06 - 01:12
Main is at the top and is the default name Git provides to the branch when we create a project.

6. Analysis branch
01:12 - 01:19
Beneath main, we have created another branch called analysis, where we plan to analyze our data.

7. Report branch
01:19 - 01:31
After two commits in this branch, we create another branch called report. At this point, the initial state of the report branch will look identical to the second commit in the analysis branch.

8. Merging analysis into main
01:31 - 01:38
After one more commit in the analysis branch, we merge the analysis branch back into main.

9. Merging report into main
01:38 - 01:45
We work on the report in the report branch, and after two more commits, we merge this branch back into main as well.

10. Source and destination
01:45 - 02:10
When we merge two branches, the commits are called parent commits. One branch is known as the source, the branch we want to merge from, and the other is known as the destination, the branch we want to merge into. In this diagram, when we merge analysis back into main, the analysis branch is the source, and main is the destination.

11. Benefits of branches
02:10 - 02:22
Besides avoiding endless subdirectories, branches are beneficial as they allow multiple users to work simultaneously and track everything, which minimizes the risk of conflicting versions.

12. Identifying branches
02:22 - 02:43
We can see what branches exist for our project by executing the git branch command in the terminal. We see three branches in the output: alter-report-title, main, and summary-statistics. The summary-statistics branch has an asterisk next to it, which is how Git tells us we are currently in this branch.

13. Creating a new branch
02:43 - 03:14
We've decided we need another branch called report, where we will work on the project report. We want to create it from the summary-statistics branch, where we are currently located. We can create a new branch called report by executing the git checkout command with the dash-b flag followed by our branch name. The output shows Git has created the new branch and moved us into it. By executing git branch, we see the report branch listed with an asterisk.

14. The difference between branches
03:14 - 03:34
Previously we've compared repos from different points in time. When working with branches, we will often want to see the difference between branches. We can rely on the git diff command for this too! We provide the names of the two branches we want to compare. In this case, we examine main versus summary-statistics.

15. Comparing branches
03:34 - 03:44
This produces a standard git diff output as we've seen previously. This output shows that summary statistics were added in the second branch!

16. Let's practice!
03:44 - 03:49
Time to branch out of this video and into some exercises!