# Lambda functions

1. Lambda functions
00:00 - 00:10
We've worked with custom functions. Now, let's explore an approach that offers flexibility without the need to build a complete function from scratch.

2. Simple functions
00:10 - 00:34
Custom functions are great, but can require a lot of code! As an example, this simple function calculating the average from a sequence of values requires three lines of code - one to define the function, one for the function body, and another to return an output. However, there is a quicker way to achieve the same result!

3. Lambda functions
00:34 - 00:46
We can use the lambda keyword to create an anonymous function, which doesn't require a name or need to be saved as a variable. The general syntax is lambda,

4. Lambda functions
00:46 - 00:49
followed by one or more arguments,

5. Lambda functions
00:49 - 00:50
a colon,

6. Lambda functions
00:50 - 01:18
and an expression. The convention is to use x for a single argument, although any word will work. The expression is the equivalent of the function body. Also, no return statement is required to produce an output! Lastly, while lambda functions can be used anonymously, storing and then calling them is also possible. Let's explore both approaches.

7. Creating a lambda function
01:18 - 01:36
Here, we write a lambda function to find the average value. It shows an output pointing to a lambda function. This is the equivalent of defining a custom function and displaying it without calling the function and providing an argument.

8. Using lambda functions
01:36 - 01:40
To use the lambda function, we place it inside parentheses.

9. Using lambda functions
01:40 - 01:54
Immediately after, we open parentheses again and provide a value representing x — in this case, a list of three values. Now, we see an output of six.

10. Storing and calling a lambda function
01:54 - 02:11
If we intend to use the lambda function more than once, we could store it as a variable, like here. We can then call the variable, average, like a regular function, and provide the list representing x. The result is the same!

11. Multiple parameters
02:11 - 02:30
We can extend lambda functions in a couple of ways. We can use more than one argument, such as raising x to the power of y. The values of two and three represent x and y respectively, producing an output of eight.

12. Lambda functions with iterables
02:30 - 03:30
We can use lambda functions to perform actions on values within an iterable, such as a list. To do this, we need to use lambda inside Python's built-in map function, which applies a function to the iterable we provide. Let's use this approach to capitalize every value in a list called names. We call map, first providing the lambda function which uses the string.capitalize method, followed by the iterable to apply the function to, names. Printing this shows a map object pointing to the memory location where this function is stored. To produce an output, we need to convert it to a data structure. As we are working with a list, we do this by calling the list function and providing our capitalize function inside. It returns all values in the names list with capitalized first letters!

13. Custom vs. lambda functions
03:30 - 03:51
So when should we use lambda functions over custom functions? If the function is complex, such as using if-else syntax, or will be used many times, we should make a custom one. In contrast, if we need to do something once or it's relatively simple, we should use lambda.

14. Let's practice!
03:51 - 03:55
Time to practice working with lambda functions!