# Congratulations

1. Congratulations
00:00 - 00:04
Nice work on completing the course! Let's recap.

2. Chapter 1 recap
00:04 - 00:15
You discovered how Python's rich ecosystem provides functions, modules, and packages so that we don't always have to write code from scratch!

3. Chapter 2 recap
00:15 - 00:23
For scenarios where existing code isn't suitable, you then learned how to create your own custom functions,

4. Chapter 2 recap
00:23 - 00:27
and enhanced them by adding default keyword arguments!

5. Chapter 2 recap
00:27 - 00:31
You added information about their use through docstrings,

6. Chapter 2 recap
00:31 - 00:39
and you implemented flexibility in your custom functions using arbitrary positional and keyword arguments!

7. Chapter 3 recap
00:39 - 00:48
You then explored how to build functions on the fly, using lambda and map to produce results in a few lines of code.

8. Chapter 3 recap
00:48 - 00:52
You closed out the course by learning about errors,

9. Chapter 3 recap
00:52 - 00:54
and techniques for handling them!

10. Next steps
00:54 - 01:16
Python has so much more on offer! From here, you may wish to learn about additional built-in functions, install and use other packages or work with more of Python's built-in modules, and explore object-oriented programming, which is a crucial approach to writing code when building software at scale.

11. Congratulations!
01:16 - 01:27
You're building up crucial knowledge and skills in your developer journey. Check out more DataCamp courses and try applying yourself with our projects!