# Saving files

1. Saving files
00:00 - 00:08
Now let's explore how Git stores information, along with looking at a workflow to update files and check their status.

2. A repository
00:08 - 00:18
To start, let's discuss the components of a Git project. We'll be working with a project about mental health in tech throughout the course, which is shown here.

3. A repository
00:18 - 00:31
There are two parts - the first is the files and directories that we create and edit, in this case a funding document, a markdown file containing a report, and a directory called data.

4. A repository
00:31 - 01:00
The second part is the extra information that Git records about the project's history. The combination of these two things is called a repository, often referred to as a repo. Git stores all of its extra information in a directory called dot-git, located in the main directory of the repo. Git expects this information to be laid out in a particular way, so we should not edit or delete dot-git.

5. Staging and committing
01:00 - 01:12
Now let's discuss how to make changes in a repo. We save a draft by placing it in a staging area. We save files, and update the repo in the process, through a commit.

1 Image credits: https://unsplash.com/@brandomakesbranding; https://unsplash.com/@almapapi
6. Staging and committing
01:12 - 01:29
Putting files in the staging area is like placing a letter in an envelope, while making a commit is like putting the envelope in a mailbox. We can add more things to the envelope or take things out as often as we want, but once we put it in the mailbox we can't make further changes.

7. Accessing the .git directory
01:29 - 01:55
Although we shouldn't edit the dot-git directory, it may be helpful to see what's inside. It won't display when using the shell ls command, as it's a hidden directory. A hidden directory is a directory not displayed to users, typically because it stores information to enable programs to run. But if we add the dash-a flag it shows up along with some hidden files!

8. Making changes to files
01:55 - 02:20
Let's visualize the Git storage workflow. Here, we modify a markdown file called report-dot-md, and store five draft updates to the staging area as we progress. We commit, or save, the second and fifth versions of the file in the staging area, and with each commit our dot-git directory is modified to reflect the state of the repo.

9. Git workflow
02:20 - 02:30
So, our Git workflow is to modify a file, save the draft to the staging area, commit the updated file to our repo, and repeat!

10. Modifying a file
02:30 - 02:43
To execute this workflow we can use nano to open a text editor for the report file. We add three lines of text and save it using control-O and control-X.

11. Saving a file
02:43 - 03:01
To add the updated file to the staging area we use the command git add followed by the filename. Alternatively, we can add all modified files in the current directory using git add dot, as a dot represents all files and directories in our current location.

12. Making a commit
03:01 - 03:20
We then commit our drafts using git commit. We add the dash-m flag to allow us to include a log message about our commit, placing it in quotes. The log message is important as we can refer to it later. Best practice is to keep it short and concise.

13. Check the status of files
03:20 - 03:42
If we are making lots of changes then it's useful to know the status of our repo. We can use the git status command, which tells us which files are in the staging area, and which files have changes that aren't in the staging area yet. In this case, we see report-dot-md has been modified and is in the staging area, so we make a commit.

14. Let's practice!
03:42 - 03:45
Let's modify some files!