# Enlarging images

Enlarging images
Have you ever tried resizing an image to make it larger? This usually results in loss of quality, with the enlarged image looking blurry.

The good news is that the algorithm used by scikit-image works very well for enlarging images up to a certain point.

In this exercise you'll enlarge an image three times!!

You'll do this by rescaling the image of a rocket, that will be loaded from the data module.

Rocket
Instructions
100 XP
Import the module and function needed to enlarge images, you'll do this by rescaling.
Import the data module.
Load the rocket() image from data.
Enlarge the rocket_image so it is 3 times bigger, with the anti aliasing filter applied. Make sure to set multichannel to True or you risk your session timing out!

```py
# Import the module and function to enlarge images
from skimage.____ import ____

# Import the data module
from skimage import ____

# Load the image from data
rocket_image = ____.____()

# Enlarge the image so it is 3 times bigger
enlarged_rocket_image = ____(rocket_image, ____, ____=____, multichannel=____)

# Show original and resulting image
show_image(rocket_image)
show_image(enlarged_rocket_image, "3 times enlarged image")

```

Here’s how you can complete the exercise to enlarge the rocket image three times using the appropriate functions from the `skimage` library:

```python
# Import the module and function to enlarge images
from skimage.transform import rescale

# Import the data module
from skimage import data

# Load the image from data
rocket_image = data.rocket()

# Enlarge the image so it is 3 times bigger
enlarged_rocket_image = rescale(rocket_image, 3, anti_aliasing=True, multichannel=True)

# Show original and resulting image
show_image(rocket_image)
show_image(enlarged_rocket_image, "3 times enlarged image")
```

### Explanation:
- **`from skimage.transform import rescale`**: This imports the `rescale` function, which is used for resizing images.
- **`from skimage import data`**: This imports the `data` module to access the sample images provided by `scikit-image`.
- **`rescale(rocket_image, 3, anti_aliasing=True, multichannel=True)`**: This enlarges the `rocket_image` to three times its original size, applies anti-aliasing, and treats the image as multichannel (for color images).

The resulting images will allow you to compare the original and the enlarged versions of the rocket image.