# Creating repos

1. Creating repos
00:00 - 00:09
We know how to work with pre-existing Git repos, so let's look at how we can make new repos, and convert an existing project into a Git repo.

2. Why make a repo?
00:09 - 00:27
There are many benefits to creating a Git repo, which we've previously highlighted. To recap, the main reasons include the ability to systematically track the versions of files, to provide an easy way to collaborate with colleagues, and store everything so we can avoid losing our files!

1 Image credit: https://unsplash.com/@jasongoodman_youxventures
3. Creating a new repo
00:27 - 01:12
Imagine we've secured funding for a project following up on our mental health in tech companies project, which will compare mental health in the workplace across a range of sectors. Here, we create a new Git repo for this project using the git init command, followed by the name of our project called mental-health-workspace. Git creates a new subdirectory in the directory we were located in when we ran the git init command, with the name we provided for the repo. We can use cd to change into this directory. We can check that the Git repo has initialized correctly by running git status. Success! The output confirms we have a Git repo, and that no commits have been made yet.

4. Converting a project
01:12 - 01:39
Now we know how to create a Git repo from scratch, let's look at how to convert an existing project into a repo. Let's say we started working on our new mental health project without first creating a new Git repo. We can convert the directory to a Git repo by executing git init. We run the command from our project directory, and Git confirms that an empty repo has been created along with providing the location.

5. What is being tracked?
01:39 - 01:54
Something interesting happens if we check the status of the repo. We can see Git has immediately recognized that there are modified files, in this case, the report-dot-md file, so we are encouraged to add our files to the staging area and make a commit!

6. Nested repositories
01:54 - 02:23
One word of caution when creating Git repos. We should avoid creating a Git repo inside another Git repo, also known as nested repos. If we do this, there will be two dot-git directories. Unfortunately, as we try to make commits, Git will get confused about which directory it needs to update. Generally, nested repos are not necessary except when working on extremely large and complex data projects!

7. Let's practice!
02:23 - 02:27
Time to make our own Git repos!