# Pushing to a remote

1. Pushing to a remote
00:00 - 00:08
We've seen how to bring our local branch up to date with a remote repo, but what about bringing our local changes into a remote repo?

2. Pulling from a remote
00:08 - 00:15
To recap, we use git pull to gather content from a remote and merge into our local repo.

3. Pushing to a remote
00:15 - 00:26
The opposite of this task is merging content from a local repo into a remote. Therefore, the opposite of pulling means that we push our changes to the remote.

4. git push
00:26 - 01:02
As with pulling contents from a remote, we need to commit local changes before we can push to the remote. Once we have done this, we can push to a remote using the git push command, supplying two arguments. First we provide the remote, followed by the local branch. The order that we supply the remote repo and the local branch is the same as git pull. So, we can think of it as pushing content into the remote repo from the local branch. Here, we push changes into origin from our local main branch.

5. Push/pull workflow
01:02 - 01:10
The typical push/pull workflow is as follows. We start by pulling the remote into our local repo.

6. Push/pull workflow
01:10 - 01:15
We then work on our project locally, committing changes as we go.

7. Push/pull workflow
01:15 - 01:24
Lastly, we push our updated local repo to the remote. This workflow is repeated throughout our time working on the project.

8. Pushing first
01:24 - 01:34
What happens if we don't start the workflow by pulling from the remote? Here, we try to push the contents of our local repo's main branch to the remote.

9. Remote/local conflicts
01:34 - 01:37
Git gives us a large output! Let's break it down.

10. Remote/local conflicts
01:37 - 01:42
The first line shows us the remote repo URL we are trying to push to.

11. Remote/local conflicts
01:42 - 01:48
The second and third lines show us the outcome of the command - it was rejected and failed.

12. Remote/local conflicts
01:48 - 02:27
In the third to seventh lines, Git provides hints. This is where Git tells us why the command failed, and recommends what we should do to resolve the issue. In this case, we see that the tip, or the end, of our current branch is behind its remote counterpart and the suggestion is to pull from the remote before trying to push our local changes again. This can typically occur because while we've been working locally, our colleagues have been pushing their changes to the remote. So, if we don't pull from the remote at the start of the workflow then our local repo won't be synchronized with the remote.

13. Resolving a conflict
02:27 - 02:59
Previously we saw that git pull used a fast-forward merge. In this case it's slightly different, as there are different commits on the local and remote repos, so Git can't just bring them in line with one another. So, when we try to pull, Git will automatically open the nano text editor and ask us to add a message for the merge. We leave a message that we are pulling the latest report from the remote. We use Control and O to save, then Control and X to exit as usual.

14. Avoid leaving a message
02:59 - 03:08
We can avoid providing a message by including dash-dash-no-edit when executing git pull, however, this is not recommended!

15. Resolving a conflict
03:08 - 03:27
After saving our message, we see that the merge has been made using a recursive strategy, and report-dot-md was updated. When using a Git version between zero-point-nine-nine-point-nine and two-point-three-three-point-zero, this is the default merge strategy.

16. Pushing to the remote
03:27 - 03:48
As this change has now been incorporated locally, we can try to push our changes again. The output provides a lot of information, but the key takeaway is that the changes have been written to the remote repo. The final line shows the commit hashes referenced for merging the local repos's main branch into the remote's main branch.

17. Let's practice!
03:48 - 03:55
Let's push things with some exercises to synchronize our local and remote repos!