# Gathering from a remote

1. Gathering from a remote
00:00 - 00:07
We've seen how to clone remote repos, now let's look at how to get content from a remote into our local repo.

2. Remote vs. local
00:07 - 00:22
Say we have been working in a branch of our local repo, but others have been working in the remote. Here, we can see the contents of the two repos, and it is clear that there are additional files and subdirectories in the remote.

3. Collaborating on Git projects
00:22 - 00:44
If several people are collaborating on a project then, in practice, they will access the remote, work on files locally, save them, and synchronize their changes between the remote and local repos. This means that the remote repo should be the source of truth for the project, where the latest versions of files that are not drafts can be located.

4. Fetching from a remote
00:44 - 01:10
To compare the files in a remote against the contents of a local repo we first need to fetch versions from the remote. We do this using the git fetch command, providing the name of the remote, and the local branch to fetch into. Here we fetch from the origin remote. The output shows us the URL or path we are fetching from, the branch, which is main, and that we are fetching the HEAD, or last commit.

5. Fetching from a remote
01:10 - 01:20
If we want to fetch into a different branch, we specify it. For example, here, we fetch from the remote origin repo's report branch.

6. Synchronizing content
01:20 - 02:01
After fetching, we now have the contents of the remote in our local repo. However, we need to synchronize contents between the two repos. To do this, we perform a merge of the remote into the local repo's main branch, where we are currently located. The output shows the two commit hashes, followed by the type of merge. In this case it is a fast-forward, meaning the local repo was behind the remote, and this merge aligned it. We see two files were changed, mental-health-survey-dot-csv had three lines added, and report-dot-md had one line added. The last line summarizes the changes.

7. Pulling from a remote
02:01 - 02:29
As the remote is the source of truth, it is often ahead of local repos, meaning the workflow of fetching content and synchronizing locally is very common. To simplify this process, Git allows us to fetch and merge using a single command. We execute git pull followed by the remote repo's name and the local repo branch we are merging into. Here, we pull from origin into our local main branch.

8. Pulling from a remote
02:29 - 02:40
The output confirms this is a combination of the two commands, with the git fetch output shown in the first two lines, and the git merge output displayed in the remaining five lines!

9. Pulling with unsaved local changes
02:40 - 03:09
If we have been working locally and not yet committed our changes, then Git won't allow us to pull from a remote. Let's say we've added a new line to the report but not staged the file or made a commit. If we try to pull from origin then Git tells us that local changes would be overwritten. We are instructed to commit our changes and told that the pull command was aborted. Therefore, it's important to save our work locally before we pull from a remote.

10. Let's practice!
03:09 - 03:14
Time to practice fetching and pulling in Git!