# Introduction to other file types

1. Introduction to other file types
00:00 - 00:12
Now that you have mastered the art of importing flat files in Python, it is time to check out a number of other file types that you will find yourself needing to work with as a data scientist.

2. Other file types
00:12 - 00:56
In this chapter, you will learn how to import Excel spreadsheets, which professionals from all disciplines use to store their data. You will also gain familiarity with importing MATLAB, SAS and Stata files, which are commonplace. You will also learn how to import HDF5 files and you'll actually import an HDF5 file containing data from the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory project that provided empirical support for Einstein's Theory of Gravitational Waves in 2016. HDF5 files are becoming a more prevalent way to store large datasets, as demonstrated by the fact that the LIGO researchers use it to store their data.

3. Pickled files
00:56 - 01:54
Another file type you'll learn about in this Chapter is that of a 'pickled' file. This is a file type native to Python. The concept of pickling a file is motivated by the following: while it may be easy to save a numpy array or a pandas dataframe to a flat file, there are many other datatypes, such as dictionaries and lists, for which it isn't obvious how to store them. 'Pickle' to the rescue! If you want your files to be human readable, you may want to save them as text files in a clever manner (JSONs, which you will see in a later chapter, are appropriate for Python dictionaries). If, however, you merely want to be able to import them into Python, you can serialize them. All this means is converting the object into a sequence of bytes, or bytestream. As this is a course in Importing Data in Python,

4. Pickled files
01:54 - 02:19
you'll learn how to import files that have already been pickled. As you have done before, when opening such a file, you'll want to specify that it is read only; you'll also want to specify that it is a binary file, meaning that it is computer-readable and not human-readable. To specify both read only and binary, you'll want pass the string 'rb' as the second argument of open.

5. Importing Excel spreadsheets
02:19 - 03:26
You'll then dive head-first into Excel spreadsheets, the use of which is so widespread that they need next to no introduction at all. An Excel file generally consists of a number of sheets. There are many ways to import Excel files and you'll use pandas to do so because it produces dataframes natively, which is great for your practice as a Data Scientist. As you can see in this example, you can use the functionExcelfile to assign an Excel file to a variable data. As an Excel file consists of sheets, the first thing to do is figure out what the sheets are. This is straightforward with the command 'data dot sheet_names'. To then load a particular sheet as a dataframe, you need only apply the method parse to the object data with a single argument, which is either the name as a string or the index as a float of the sheet that you wish to load: pandas is clever enough to know if you're telling it the sheet name or the index!

6. You’ll learn:
03:26 - 03:37
You'll also learn how to customize your spreadsheet import in order to skip rows, import only certain columns and to change the column names. That's enough from me,

7. Let's practice!
03:37 - 03:46
it's now time to get your hands dirty with pickled files and Excel spreadsheets. Enjoy!

