# Importing SAS-Stata files using pandas

1. Importing SAS/Stata files using pandas
00:00 - 00:14
There are many statistical software packages out there and, although you may not need to do so all the time, it will be important for you, as a working Data Scientist, to be able to import these files into your Python environment.

2. SAS and Stata files
00:14 - 00:37
The most common examples are SAS, which is an acronym for 'Statistical Analysis System', and Stata, which is a contraction of 'Statistics' and 'Data'. The former is used a great deal in business analytics and biostatistics, while the latter is popular in academic social sciences research, such as economics and epidemiology.

3. SAS files
00:37 - 00:52
SAS files are important because SAS is a software suite that performs advanced analytics, multivariate analyses, business intelligence, data management, predictive analytics and is a standard for statisticians to do computational analysis.

4. Importing SAS files
00:52 - 01:35
The most common SAS files have the extension dot sas7bdat and dot sas7bcat, which are dataset files and catalog files respectively. You'll learn how to import the former as dataframes using the function SAS7BDAT (upper case) from the package sas7bdat (lower case). In this case, you can bind the variable file to a connection to the file 'urbanpop dot sas7bdat' in a context manager. Within this context, you can assign to a variable df_sas the result of applying method to_data_frame to file.

5. Importing Stata files
01:35 - 02:06
Stata files have extension dot dta and we can import them using pandas. We don't even need to initialize a context manager in this case! We merely pass the filename to the function read_stata and assign it to a variable, just like this. In the following exercises, you'll gain invaluable experience at importing these important file formats in Python as pandas dataframes and then seeing what was inside them.

6. Let's practice!
02:06 - 02:12
Now it's your turn, happy importing!

