# Connect to a database

Connect to a database
In order to get data from a database with pandas, you first need to be able to connect to one. In this exercise, you'll practice creating a database engine to manage connections to a database, data.db. To do this, you'll use sqlalchemy's create_engine() function.

create_engine() needs a string URL to the database. For SQLite databases, that string consists of "sqlite:///", then the database file name.

Instructions 1/2
50 XP
1
Import the create_engine() function from sqlalchemy.
# Import sqlalchemy's create_engine() function
____

To import the `create_engine()` function from the `sqlalchemy` library, you can use the following code:

### Code
```python
# Import sqlalchemy's create_engine() function
from sqlalchemy import create_engine
```

### Explanation:
- **`from sqlalchemy import create_engine`**: This line imports the `create_engine` function, which is essential for creating a new SQLAlchemy engine instance that can be used to connect to a database.

You can now use `create_engine()` to establish connections to various databases, such as SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and others.

2
Use create_engine() to make a database engine for data.db.
Run the last line of code to show the names of the tables in the database.
# Import sqlalchemy's create_engine() function
from sqlalchemy import create_engine

# Create the database engine
engine = ____(____)

# View the tables in the database
print(engine.table_names())

To create a database engine for `data.db` using `create_engine()` from SQLAlchemy, you can fill in the placeholders in the provided code as follows:

### Code
```python
# Import sqlalchemy's create_engine() function
from sqlalchemy import create_engine

# Create the database engine
engine = create_engine('sqlite:///data.db')

# View the tables in the database
print(engine.table_names())
```

### Explanation:
- **`create_engine('sqlite:///data.db')`**: This line creates a new SQLAlchemy engine that connects to a SQLite database located in the file `data.db`. The `sqlite:///` prefix indicates that you are using SQLite as the database backend.
- **`print(engine.table_names())`**: This line retrieves and prints the names of all tables present in the connected SQLite database.

By running this code, you will establish a connection to `data.db` and display the names of the tables contained within that database.