# Get data from other flat files

Get data from other flat files
While CSVs are the most common kind of flat file, you will sometimes find files that use different delimiters. read_csv() can load all of these with the help of the sep keyword argument. By default, pandas assumes that the separator is a comma, which is why we do not need to specify sep for CSVs.

The version of Vermont tax data here is a tab-separated values file (TSV), so you will need to use sep to pass in the correct delimiter when reading the file. Remember that tabs are represented as \t. Once the file has been loaded, the remaining code groups the N1 field, which contains income range categories, to create a chart of tax returns by income category.

Instructions
100 XP
Import pandas with the alias pd.
Load vt_tax_data_2016.tsv, making sure to set the correct delimiter with the sep keyword argument.

# Import pandas with the alias pd
____

# Load TSV using the sep keyword argument to set delimiter
data = ____(____, ____)

# Plot the total number of tax returns by income group
counts = data.groupby("agi_stub").N1.sum()
counts.plot.bar()
plt.show()

Here's how to complete the code to read the TSV file:

```python
# Import pandas with the alias pd
import pandas as pd

# Import matplotlib for plotting
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Load TSV using the sep keyword argument to set delimiter
data = pd.read_csv("vt_tax_data_2016.tsv", sep="\t")

# Plot the total number of tax returns by income group
counts = data.groupby("agi_stub").N1.sum()
counts.plot.bar()
plt.show()
```

### Explanation:
1. `import pandas as pd` - This imports the `pandas` library and assigns it the alias `pd`.
2. `import matplotlib.pyplot as plt` - Imports the `matplotlib` library to allow for plotting.
3. `pd.read_csv("vt_tax_data_2016.tsv", sep="\t")` - Loads the TSV file into a pandas DataFrame named `data`, specifying `\t` as the delimiter using the `sep` argument.
4. The `groupby` method groups the data by the `agi_stub` field, then `N1.sum()` calculates the total number of tax returns in each income category.
5. `counts.plot.bar()` creates a bar plot, and `plt.show()` displays the plot.