# Customizing your NumPy import

Customizing your NumPy import
What if there are rows, such as a header, that you don't want to import? What if your file has a delimiter other than a comma? What if you only wish to import particular columns?

There are a number of arguments that np.loadtxt() takes that you'll find useful:

delimiter changes the delimiter that loadtxt() is expecting.
You can use ',' for comma-delimited.
You can use '\t' for tab-delimited.
skiprows allows you to specify how many rows (not indices) you wish to skip.
usecols takes a list of the indices of the columns you wish to keep.
The file that you'll be importing, digits_header.txt, has a header and is tab-delimited.

Instructions
100 XP
Complete the arguments of np.loadtxt(): the file you're importing is tab-delimited, you want to skip the first row and you only want to import the first and third columns.
Complete the argument of the print() call in order to print the entire array that you just imported.

# Import numpy
import numpy as np

# Assign the filename: file
file = 'digits_header.txt'

# Load the data: data
data = np.loadtxt(____, delimiter='____', skiprows=____, usecols=[____])

# Print data
print(____)


To complete the code for importing the `digits_header.txt` file while specifying a tab delimiter, skipping the first row, and only importing the first and third columns, you can use the following code:

```python
# Import numpy
import numpy as np

# Assign the filename: file
file = 'digits_header.txt'

# Load the data: data
data = np.loadtxt(file, delimiter='\t', skiprows=1, usecols=[0, 2])

# Print data
print(data)
```

### Explanation of the Code:
- **`delimiter='\t'`**: This specifies that the file is tab-delimited.
- **`skiprows=1`**: This argument tells NumPy to skip the first row, which typically contains the header.
- **`usecols=[0, 2]`**: This argument specifies that only the first and third columns (index 0 and 2) should be imported from the file.

By executing this code, you'll import the specified columns from the tab-delimited file while skipping the header, and then print the resulting array.