# Congratulations

1. Congratulations
00:00 - 00:21
Congratulations! You've reached the end of this introduction to AWS course. This course was designed as a foundation for your journey toward passing the AWS Cloud Practitioner exam, also known as the CLF-C02. In this final video, we'll outline the key topics that will be covered in the exam.

2. Disclaimer
00:21 - 00:39
Before we get ahead of ourselves, it’s important to note that passing the certification exam will likely require deeper exploration into many of these topics. With that being said, now that you've taken this course, and have had an opportunity to explore AWS, many of the topics in the certification may be familiar to you!

3. Domain 1: Cloud concepts
00:39 - 01:06
The exam is divided into four main skill groups. The first domain focuses on understanding key cloud concepts. This includes defining the benefits of using AWS, identifying design principles with the Well-Architected framework, understanding the benefits and strategies of moving to cloud as well as grapsing the concept of cloud economics. This domain covers an estimated 24% of the scored content.

4. Domain 2: Security and compliance
01:06 - 01:39
Next, domain two focuses on key issues around security and compliance. This includes understanding the AWS shared responsibility model and it's impact on customers. Then there is a focus on understanding AWS cloud security, governance and compliance concepts. This involves identifying AWS access managements as well as components and resources to keep your AWS cloud secure. This domain covers an estimated 30% of the scored content.

5. Domain 3: Cloud technology and services
01:39 - 02:18
Domain three is the biggest domain with a focus on understanding the various services AWS has to offer. Before understanding the services, it's important to be able to define methods for deploying and operating in the cloud, as well as understanding how the global infrastructure of AWS is setup. Next, the exam will focus on your ability to understanding the various services available including compute, databases, network, storage, artificial intelligence, machine learning and other in-scope services. This domain covers an estimated 34% of the scored content.

6. Domain 4: Billing, pricing and support
02:18 - 02:40
Finally, the last domain group focuses on cost management. This includes understanding the AWS pricing model, understanding resources for billing, budget and cost management, as well as identifying technical resources for AWS support options. This domain covers an estimated 12% of the scored content.

7. Exam guide
02:40 - 02:57
It's important to note that the exact details of skills required may change over time. We recommend looking at the official AWS Exam guide to see the exact skills you'll be tested on, but having a good understanding of these domains is the best place to start.

8. What's next?
02:57 - 03:05
So what's next? You can find more courses on AWS on DataCamp where you'll dive deeper into the domains for the certification.

9. Thank you!
03:05 - 03:26
As you wrap up this course, we'll ask you to complete an exercise to reflect on which skills you feel confident in and which areas you need to explore further. Congratulations on completing this course! You’ve laid a strong foundation for your journey with AWS, and we hope to see you in future AWS courses!