# Introduction to AWS Database services

In this exercise, you will explore AWS Lambda, a key serverless compute service, by creating and testing a simple function. You'll understand how Lambda handles scaling, automation, and server management without needing direct intervention.

Navigate to Lambda, a serverless compute service that allows developers to run event-driven code without provisioning or managing servers.
From the overview page, create a new function

There are three ways to author functions: from scratch, with a blueprint and using a container image.

Select Use a blueprint for the method we are going to use for authoring.
Update the Blueprint name to the Hello world function - python 3.10 blueprint
Define the Function name, for example "hello-world-python"
The execution role should be set to Create a new role with basic Lambda permissions
Click Create function to create your Lambda function!

In the "Runtime" dropdown menu, select the language you want to use, such as Python or Node.js.

Navigate to our Code source section, this is where we can input the code for the function we want to run. In the current lambda_function.py file, clear the existing script and copy & paste the below code:

import json

print('Loading function')


def lambda_handler(event, context):
    return {
        'statusCode': 200,
        'body': 'Hello, World!'
    }

Time to deploy your function to the Lambda environment using the Deploy button.

Typically the next step would be to test your function works as expected, but the purpose of this exercise was to explore the setup. We'll dive deeper into Lambda in future courses.


Correct! AWS Lambda automatically scales the number of function instances based on the number of incoming requests