# Creating an S3 bucket

In this exercise, you'll explore Amazon's object storage service: S3.

You'll learn how to create, manage, and upload files to an S3 bucket and how to configure important settings like versioning and access permissions, as well exploring S3 storage classes.

Navigate to Amazon's S3 service, which provides scalable cloud-based object storage designed for secure and efficient storage and retrieval of large amounts of data.
Let's start by creating our first S3 bucket, by selecting Create bucket.

Our first steps when configuring our S3 bucket are General configuration and Object ownership. We can apply the following details:

Bucket type: General purpose
Bucket name:
Reminder: Must be globally unique, might include a prefix like s3bucket- followed by a custom name.
Object ownership: ACLs disabled

Scroll to the Bucket Versioning section. Versioning allows multiple versions of the same object to be stored in the bucket, enabling you to retrieve and restore previous versions if needed. This feature is particularly useful for recovering from unintended actions or application failures.

Enable versioning for your S3 bucket

You've created your first S3 bucket, good job! Now let's test it by uploading a our first file into our bucket.

To upload a file into your bucket, click Upload and Add files
From the upload window, navigate to the Desktop icon on the left, and click on the Resources folder
Select the datacamp-logo.png file, then click Open
Once you've selected your file, upload it!

Now that you've uploaded your first file, let's explore the properties of the image so we can see which storage class has been applied.

Navigate to your S3 bucket and select on the image you uploaded to view it's properties.

That's correct! Standard storage class has been applied which is designed for frequently accessed data .

