# Generating pairs

1. Generating pairs
00:00 - 00:06
Great work with lesson 1 - you now have a solid understanding how to calculate string similarity.

2. Motivation
00:06 - 00:24
At the end of the last video exercise, we saw how record linkage attempts to join data sources with fuzzy duplicate values. For example here are two DataFrames containing NBA games and their schedules. They've both been scraped from different sites and we would want to merge them together and have one DataFrame containing all unique games.

3. When joins won't work
00:24 - 00:45
We see that there are duplicates values in both DataFrames with different naming marked here in red, and non duplicate values, marked here in green. Since there are games happening at the same time, no common unique identifier between the DataFrames, and the events are differently named, a regular join or merge will not work. This is where record linkage comes in.

4. Record linkage
00:45 - 01:05
Record linkage is the act of linking data from different sources regarding the same entity. Generally, we clean two or more DataFrames, generate pairs of potentially matching records, score these pairs according to string similarity and other similarity metrics, and link them. All of these steps can be achieved with the recordlinkage package, let's find how!

5. Our DataFrames
01:05 - 01:22
Here we have two DataFrames, census_A, and census_B, containing data on individuals throughout the states. We want to merge them while avoiding duplication using record linkage, since they are collected manually and are prone to typos, there are no consistent IDs between them.

6. Generating pairs
01:22 - 01:30
We first want to generate pairs between both DataFrames. Ideally, we want to generate all possible pairs between our DataFrames.

7. Generating pairs
01:30 - 01:39
but what if we had big DataFrames and ended up having to generate millions if not billions of pairs? It wouldn't prove scalable and could seriously hamper development time.

8. Blocking
01:39 - 01:48
This is where we apply what we call blocking, which creates pairs based on a matching column, which is in this case, the state column, reducing the number of possible pairs.

9. Generating pairs
01:48 - 02:16
To do this, we first start off by importing recordlinkage. We then use the recordlinkage dot Index function, to create an indexing object. This essentially is an object we can use to generate pairs from our DataFrames. To generate pairs blocked on state, we use the block method, inputting the state column as input. Once the indexer object has been initialized, we generate our pairs using the dot index method, which takes in the two dataframes.

10. Generating pairs
02:16 - 02:29
The resulting object, is a pandas multi index object containing pairs of row indices from both DataFrames, which is a fancy way to say it is an array containing possible pairs of indices that makes it much easier to subset DataFrames on.

11. Comparing the DataFrames
02:29 - 03:36
Since we've already generated our pairs, it's time to find potential matches. We first start by creating a comparison object using the recordlinkage dot compare function. This is similar to the indexing object we created while generating pairs, but this one is responsible for assigning different comparison procedures for pairs. Let's say there are columns for which we want exact matches between the pairs. To do that, we use the exact method. It takes in the column name in question for each DataFrame, which is in this case date_of_birth and state, and a label argument which lets us set the column name in the resulting DataFrame. Now in order to compute string similarities between pairs of rows for columns that have fuzzy values, we use the dot string method, which also takes in the column names in question, the similarity cutoff point in the threshold argument, which takes in a value between 0 and 1, which we here set to 0.85. Finally to compute the matches, we use the compute function, which takes in the possible pairs, and the two DataFrames in question. Note that you need to always have the same order of DataFrames when inserting them as arguments when generating pairs, comparing between columns, and computing comparisons.

12. Finding matching pairs
03:36 - 03:54
The output is a multi index DataFrame, where the first index is the row index from the first DataFrame, or census A, and the second index is a list of all row indices in census B. The columns are the columns being compared, with values being 1 for a match, and 0 for not a match.

13. Finding the only pairs we want
03:54 - 04:08
To find potential matches, we just filter for rows where the sum of row values is higher than a certain threshold. Which in this case higher or equal to 2. But we'll dig deeper into these matches and see how to use them to link our census DataFrames in the next lesson.

14. Let's practice!
04:08 - 04:13
But for now, let's generate pairs.