# The power of NumPy arrays

1. The power of NumPy arrays
00:00 - 00:24
NumPy, or Numerical Python, is an invaluable Python package for Data Scientists. It is the fundamental package for scientific computing in Python and provides a number of benefits for writing efficient code. In this lesson, we'll highlight one of the most important advantages of NumPy: the NumPy array.

2. NumPy array overview
00:24 - 00:39
NumPy arrays provide a fast and memory efficient alternative to Python lists. Typically, we import NumPy as np and use np dot array to create a NumPy array.

3. NumPy array homogeneity
00:39 - 01:46
NumPy arrays are homogeneous, which means that they must contain elements of the same type. We can see the type of each element using the dot dtype method. Suppose we created an array using a mixture of types. Here, we create the array nums_np_floats using the integers one and three and a float two point five. Can you spot the difference in the output? The integers now have a proceeding dot in the array. That's because NumPy converted the integers to floats to retain that array's homogeneous nature. Using dot dtype, we can verify that the elements in this array are floats. Homogeneity allows NumPy arrays to be more memory efficient and faster than Python lists. Requiring all elements be the same type eliminates the overhead needed for data type checking.

4. NumPy array broadcasting
01:46 - 02:13
When analyzing data, you'll often want to perform operations over entire collections of values quickly. Say, for example, you'd like to square each number within a list of numbers. It'd be nice if we could simply square the list, and get a list of squared values returned. Unfortunately, Python lists don't support these types of calculations.

5. NumPy array broadcasting
02:13 - 02:26
We could square the values using a list by writing a for loop or using a list comprehension. But neither of these approaches is the most efficient way of doing this.

6. NumPy array broadcasting
02:26 - 02:54
Here lies the second advantage of NumPy arrays - their broadcasting functionality. NumPy arrays vectorize operations, so they are performed on all elements of an object at once. This allows us to efficiently perform calculations over entire arrays. Notice that by squaring the array nums_np, all elements are squared at once.

7. NumPy array indexing
02:54 - 03:09
Another advantage of NumPy arrays is their indexing capabilities. When comparing basic indexing between a one-dimensional array and list, the capabilities are identical.

8. NumPy array indexing
03:09 - 04:01
When using two-dimensional arrays and lists, the advantages of arrays are clear. To return the second item of the first row in our two-dimensional object, the array syntax is square bracket, zero, comma, one, square bracket. The analogous list syntax is a bit more verbose as you have to surround both the zero and one with square brackets. To return the first column of values in our two-d object, the array syntax is square bracket, colon, comma, zero, square bracket. Lists don't support this type of syntax, so we must use a list comprehension to return columns.

9. NumPy array boolean indexing
04:01 - 04:24
NumPy arrays also have a special technique called boolean indexing. Suppose we wanted to gather only positive numbers from the sequence listed here. With an array, we can create a boolean mask using a simple inequality. Indexing the array is as simple as enclosing this inequality in square brackets.

10. NumPy array boolean indexing
04:24 - 04:41
To do this using a list, we need to write a for loop to filter the list or use a list comprehension. In either case, using a NumPy array to index is less verbose and has a faster runtime.

11. Let's practice with powerful NumPy arrays!
04:41 - 04:49
Now that we've covered powerful and efficient NumPy arrays let's start putting what we've learned into practice!

